# Contributor's Guide

First, if you're viewing this, I'd like to thank you for your interest
in this project. There is only so much one brain can achieve and without
the helpful input from other contributors, this site would not exist.

Contributing on this site doesn't have any particular high-barriers to
entry, as it's written in vanilla HTML, CSS, and JS (using a Material framework).

# Prerequisites

- Any GNU/Linux distro
- Python3 (ideally the latest)
- An IDE of your choice (Atom is recommended)
- Git
- Bash or any other shell of your choice
- Some basic experience with web dev
- Some idea of Google's Material frameworks (ideally)

# Getting Started

This site uses the MDC Web framework for a Material like
look. Therefore in order to add something to this site, it
may be useful to check out the MDC Web documentation.

- [MDC Web Quick Start Guide](https://material.io/develop/web/docs/getting-started/)
- [MDC Web JS Import Guide](https://material.io/develop/web/docs/importing-js/)
- [MDC Web Components Catalog](https://material-components.github.io/material-components-web-catalog/#/)

**The most important thing is that we are using MDC Web from the
Unpkg CDN rather than installing it locally.**

This is not encouraged by the MDC Team, as fetching it from
the CDN means that we lose complete control over any form
of customisability that provided by the [SASS](https://bit.ly/2tgcs3F) backend.
Additionally, it also means that for every component that
we try to use from the material catalog, we have to instantiate
that component's required JS a bit differently than shown on
the documentation.

The advantage to using the CDN is that we do not have to
install [NPM](https://www.npmjs.com/) or any packages
locally on our machine. This massively increases portability
and allows anyone to just start writing content without having
to worry about installing anything!

* To get started, start by cloning the repository and firing up
a web-server by doing `python3 -m http.server`. Then head over to `0.0.0.0:8000`
and use the inspect element feature in your browser to change things.
If you like those changes, use your favourite IDE to apply those changes
to the appropriate part of the site.

# Site Structure

As most sites do, we have a canonical `index.html` in the
root of the repository. This is followed by three folders
which provide the core of the site as well as other pages.

The `Image_Assets/` directory contains the images used on
the site. Inside the directory there are images used generally
across all the tabs, while images for specific tabs are stored
inside their own directory inside this directory.

To store the JS and CSS code we use the `Site_Code/` directory.
Inside this is the minified and normal versions of the code that
is used by the site.

* To generate the minfied files ready
for deployment, we are using Google's trustworthy [Closure Compiler](https://closure-compiler.appspot.com/home)
on the default "Simple" optimisation setting for all JavaScript files and [CSSO](https://css.github.io/csso/csso.html)
with settings left as is for all style-sheets.

For the rest of the pages, we use the `Site_Pages/`
directory. As these pages are quite simple, not containing
more than basic text, we don't need to access the CSS and JS
from the `Site_Code/` directory, instead we opt to inline them
in the actual site as they don't span many lines.

# Adding content

The site is divided into 5 tabs, with each tab containing
content in different cards, some of which are generated by calling
JS functions, which create, initialise and insert the card
into a responsive grid. If you plan on adding any cards, *please
note that due to the grid, you will need to add an even number of cards at a time
for it to appear complete in all desktop, tablet and mobile viewports.*

**If you are looking to add new content or a new component, you'll
need to change the lines in `index.html` which reference the
`styles.min.css` and `script.min.js` to the non-minified ones for dev.**

To add a new component, first you'll need to look at the catalog
of available components, create your component and insert it into
`index.html` in the suitable tab of your choice. Then you'll need to
initialise the component using the documentation provided on the material.io
website. The initialisation will usually follow this structure `mdc.element.MDCElement.attachTo`.
To aid your purposes, you can use the pre-existing `oneElementInit` and `initElement` functions,
that I've created.

For example, to add an ink-ripple effect on all `mdc-list-item` elements,
you could do `initElement('mdc-list-item', mdc.ripple.MDCRipple.attachTo)`
and that would initialise an ink-ripple on all list elements. To initialise
an element on a single item, in this example an mdc dialog, you can use
`oneElementInit('query-selector', mdc.dialog.MDCDialog.attachTo)`. For further reference,
please see the [documentation](https://material.io/develop/web/).

I understand that this is a bit involved and people may not wish to pursue
this work by themselves, which is absolutely fine! Just create an issue on
the repo, stating your idea and I'll do my best to work with you to implement
the component, given I have the required free-time.


If there are any questions regarding anything, feel free to create an issue and I'll
answer them as soon as possible.

**Once you've added your content/cards please ensure that you've minified
the changes and inserted them into the appropriate minified files and
changed all non-minified sources in the index page, before you send off your PR.**

# Conclusion

Once again, I would like to thank you for reading this guide and taking
interest in this project. Any contribution, is absolutely welcome, although
since we are typical humans, the time it takes for us to review your PRs may
vary greatly depending on the time of year and the quantity of the code changed.

Have a great day!
